# CircleCI for Node

A Node client for CircleCI [v2 API](https://circleci.com/docs/api/v2/).

## Usage

### Setup

First, go and get a CircleCI [API Token](https://app.circleci.com/settings/user/tokens).

Then all you need to do is import the client class and instantiate it with your token and optionally a project slug and default branch:

```ts
import CircleCI from 'circleci';

const client = new CircleCI(
  '2c818264d2557cd14b9fc3fa538df6ecbc6489f3',
  // this could also be "github/owner/repo"
  ['github', 'owner', 'repo'],
  // methods that take a branch arg can override this
  'main'
);
```

Your project slug consists of:
- The VCS provider (either `github` or `bitbucket`)
- The project's owner (e.g. your username or organization name)
- The repo name

### Methods

Below is a summary list of available methods. Check out the main [client file](./src/client.ts) for fully-typed method signatures.

**Paginated results**: any method that begins with `list` returns a `Paged<T>` object, with an `items` property containing the API results, and a `next_page_token` property. If `next_page_token` is set, you can use it to call the method again with the `pageToken` argument set to that value to retrieve the next page of results.

#### Insights [🔗](https://circleci.com/docs/api/v2/#tag/Insights)

- `listWorkflowMetrics` - Get summary metrics for a project's workflows.
- `listWorkflowRuns` - Get recent runs of a workflow.
- `listWorkflowJobMetrics` - Get summary metrics for a project workflow's jobs.
- `listWorkflowJobRuns` - Get recent runs of a job within a workflow.

#### Pipeline [🔗](https://circleci.com/docs/api/v2/#tag/Pipeline)

- `listPipelines` - Returns all pipelines for the most recently built projects you follow in an organization.
- `getPipeline` - Returns a pipeline by ID.
- `getPipelineConfig` - Returns a pipeline's configuration by ID.
- `listPipelineWorkflows` - Returns a paginated list of workflows by pipeline ID.
- `triggerProjectPipeline` - Triggers a new pipeline on the project.
- `listProjectPipelines` - Returns all pipelines for this project.
- `listOwnProjectPipelines` - Returns a sequence of all pipelines for this project triggered by the user.
- `getProjectPipeline` - Returns a pipeline by number.

#### Workflow [🔗](https://circleci.com/docs/api/v2/#tag/Workflow)

- `getWorkflow` - Returns summary fields of a workflow by ID.
- `approveWorkflowJob` - Approves a pending approval job in a workflow.
- `cancelWorkflow` - Cancels a running workflow.
- `listWorkflowJobs` - Returns a sequence of jobs for a workflow.
- `rerunWorkflow` - Reruns a workflow.

#### Project [🔗](https://circleci.com/docs/api/v2/#tag/Project)

- `getProject` - Retrieves a project by project slug.
- `listCheckoutKeys` - Returns a sequence of checkout keys for the project.
- `createCheckoutKey` - Creates a new checkout key.
- `deleteCheckoutKey` - Deletes the checkout key.
- `getCheckoutKey` - Returns an individual checkout key.
- `listEnvVars` - List all environment variables (masked).
- `createEnvVar` - Creates a new environment variable.
- `deleteEnvVar` - Deletes the environment variable named.
- `getEnvVar` - Returns the masked value of an environment variable.

### Errors

In addition to [Fetch errors](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Fetch_API/Using_Fetch#Checking_that_the_fetch_was_successful), the following errors can occur:

- Any method that relies on a project slug will throw a `ProjectSlugError` if one is not set when the method is called.
- When an API call is made, if the response status code does not equal the success code indicated for that endpoint in API documentation, an `APIError` will be thrown. The object contains a `message` (which might be generated by the client or the API), `status`, and the `response` object of the Fetch request.

## Development

Development is pretty straightforward:

- Run `yarn build` to generate a new distribution build.
- `yarn lint` and `yarn format` are also available and do exactly what they say.

### Testing

Run tests:

- `yarn test` (optionally with `--watchAll`)

Run the CircleCI test job locally:

- Download the [CircleCI CLI](https://circleci.com/docs/2.0/local-cli/#installation)
- If you're changing the config, validate your changes: `circleci config validate`
- Generate a local config file: `circleci config process .circleci/config.yml > .circleci/local.yml`
- Execute the test job: `circleci local execute -c .circleci/local.yml --job test`

### Roadmap

- [x] Base v2 API support
- [ ] Additional endpoint methods (once out of Preview)
  - [ ] Context
  - [ ] User
  - [ ] Job
- [ ] Add artifact download capabilities
